This is a great and informative post by Holden, and I appreciate him and Open Phil spending so much time articulating their thinking on the issue.

I think the main significance to me of this post isn't what it says explicitly, but rather what it reveals (or rather, confirms, for those who have been paying close attention) what Open Phil stands for. Claire had made a similar point at https://www.facebook.com/groups/effective.altruists/permalink/946573212065703/ but it's more clear: Open Phil has limited relevance to ordinary people thinking about cause prioritization and allocation of personal resources, in two important ways.

(1) Open Phil's customers are not its website's audience:

GiveWell's target audience is the general public, and its product/output are largely defined by the information they are able to make publicly available to inform donors. Even when Good Ventures makes a donation, the inputs going into the donation decision are not all that different from the publicly available reviews and reasoning published by GiveWell (the main difference is that Good Ventures sees this information a little bit before the general public does). As such, GiveWell has some level of organizational responsibility to provide public information explaining its choice of top charities and the expected amounts of money moved.

Open Phil, on the other hand, is not targeting the general public as donors, and the information it releases publicly does not necessarily come anywhere close to defining it. Open Phil may still choose to reveal information about grants, but this is not out of an obligation to the public to keep them informed, but largely because (a) making some information publicly accessible allows them to gather feedback that might help them, and (b) releasing some public information makes other potential partners aware of them, including potential future employees, possible grant recipients, domain experts, and potential philanthropic partners.

One of the things Holden's post says, albeit very diplomatically, is that the "public" just doesn't have enough value and input to compensate for the extra costs of writing up strategies prior to making grants (in time, slowdown of process, possible chilling effects on options considered, privacy concerns of grant recipient orgs). So rather than posting in November saying "Hey, we're thinking about cage-free animal grants. Here's our rough reasoning. What do people think?" they opted to post, on March 31, "Here's where we donated and here's why. Feel free to comment." Even for the grant writeup released post facto, Holden alluded to a two-tier system where internal docs contain full reasoning for a grant whereas the externally published version is a watered down version.

Basically, unlike the case of GiveWell, you, as a reader of the Open Phil website, are just a privileged outsider getting a peek into their thinking, not a customer they are trying to serve.

Note that even GiveWell wasn't trying to produce a generic publicly accessible corpus of information in their domain, but at minimum their goal was to include enough information to justify their recommendations. Open Phil isn't even obligated to do that much.

(2) The generalizability of Open Phil's strategies to other donors who have merely thousands or tens of thousands of dollars to donate is questionable:

Reading through Holden's post, it makes a lot of prima facie sense for somebody who has a few billion dollars to spend, and the potential to connect with other philanthropists who may spend several billion dollars more. If your budget is in the thousands or tens of thousands (or even hundreds of thousands) of dollars, then most of these don't apply. You can't really make a big bet, and you can't make many different bets. You don't have the resources to hire full-time people to research issues, nor do you have the time or resources to build a network of domain experts. It's possible that some of Holden's wisdom will be helpful to you, but the overall framework is not transferable.



