Sure, I'll do that. I want to emphasize that my critique is on what might be called epistemic grounds. I'm not qualified to judge the piece's persuasive potential on the general public. The very things I consider problematic might actually make it better as a sales pitch.

I also time-limited myself in writing this comment so I didn't try to look for the best citations. Therefore some of what I write is likely to be wrong or ill-advised. Please take it with a grain of salt.

(1) The claims about the Panama Papers: It's popular to bash offshore tax havens, but the question of their overall effect on the world is highly ambiguous. I don't think it's appropriate to simply assume a conclusion on the many controversial questions without even trying to present anything resembling an argument.

(1a) There are very good reasons for offshore tax-free investment instruments or holding companies or whatever other financial structure is involved: they make it easier for people from different countries to invest globally without getting double-taxed. See e.g. the explanation at http://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2016/04/10/david-camerons-panama-papers-show-how-little-offshore-tax-dodging-is-going-on/ Making international investment easier has a number of advantages: frictions to foreign investment can be a major problem. None of these legally absolve the investor or asset holder of their legal liability to pay tax in their home country; it just means that the offshore entity does not actually withhold taxes for them. Many of these entities do basic checks.

(1b) This brings up another related point (see same article as linked in 1a): it is not appropriate to conclude from people using these techniques that they are actually in violation of tax laws. Many of them are actually following tax laws. Some of them are exploiting what others call "loopholes" in the law, violating the "spirit" of the law while adhering to its letter. But this is a problem with the tax law and its complexity itself.

(1c) Wealth isn't income, and just looking at the amount of wealth invested through these instruments doesn't tell us the original income that led to that wealth (income can grow to much more wealth through investment, plus people can own assets).

(1d) It's not even clear that the majority of tax evasion is from wealthy people, whereas poor people pay taxes. People generally pay taxes in cases where they are withheld at source by their employer. Income tax noncompliance around the world, particularly in cases where there aren't good records of who earned how much, is a real issue (this is one reason why many developing countries don't rely on income taxes at all, they instead rely on sales taxes, see e.g. http://www.raajsah.com/uploads/4/3/4/9/43495347/p_1983_how_much_redistribution_is_possible.pdf ).

See also:

http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2016/04/the-morality-of-panama-papers.html

https://danieljmitchell.wordpress.com/2016/04/04/another-attack-on-tax-competition-panama-papers-is-a-non-controversy-controversy/

[NOTE: My links aren't trying to prevent a balanced perspective of the issue. I'm just pointing out many reasonably well-justified claims in a direction opposite to yours, to indicate that you are wading into a genuine controversy here without even acknowledging that there is any controversy to the issue].

(2) Government spending and tax avoidance: To connect the reduction of tax avoidance with the reduction of global poverty requires the demonstration of some sort of relationship between increased government revenues and increased spending to combat global poverty. We cannot simply assume that most of the extra money raised will go to your pet cause (global poverty alleviation). A reasonable first approximation is to equate marginal with average: assume that the extra revenue raised gets distributed among different forms of government spending in the same ratio that current government spending is distributed.

(2a) This brings us to another issue. Let's say there are tax loopholes, instruments, etc. that help billionaires avoid taxes. Let's say 90% of US billionaires just use these to save money for purely personal benefit, but the remaining 10% use it to avoid paying taxes, and instead donate about 50% of the money they thereby save to the most important philanthropy. [These numbers are pulled out of thin air. But they don't seem prima facie unreasonable] That's about 5% of the tax money lost being spent on effective philanthropy. Let's say that about 2% of the money the US government spends goes to such effective philanthropic causes [the US government spends less than 1% of its budget on foreign aid, so including various other kinds of global public good expenses, 2% seems reasonable]. Then tax loopholes actually help effective philanthropy. The numbers here are just made up but not implausible. Whether it's the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative or Good Ventures, they are all carefully using the provisions of tax law to avoid having their wealth taxed away and therefore giving more than they would if the government took its share of the pie. 

(2b) What I don't even consider in (2a) is the potential for the numbers to change. I can expect that, as the Giving Pledge gets more popular, you might get both the proportion of billionaires giving, and the fraction of money they donate, to go up. I expect both these numbers to be easier to change and more likely to move up than to change the relative allocation of government revenues. That's a very debatable claim, but this is the sort of effect you'd need to consider when evaluating the effect of tax havens on philanthropy.

(3) The numbers on the amount of money needed to end global poverty are very controversial. Sure, you can think about scaling a giving operation to give people a $2/day basic income, but that remains mostly speculative, and the effects on long-run poverty are mostly unproven and unclear. But the effects of this sort of large-scale giving operation aren't clearly understood. Solving global poverty in a reasonably permanent way, however, is an open problem. There is no known price tag on it, and past claims about strategies that would work (like the MDGs) have been shown to be false (though there was some progress along relevant dimensions). Moreover, there is a reason that people like Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg and even Good Ventures are not simply spending all their money on providing a basic income to the world's poorest people: they believe it's not the most efficient or sustainable use of limited resources. Perhaps in a few years we'll have clearer understanding of the large-scale macroeconomic effects of large-scale cash transfers, but until then it would be premature to declare victory or to argue that the existing structure of foreign aid, global health philanthropy, long-run investments etc. is inferior to a means-tested basic income. 

(4) The piece is rife with epistemically unsound topic transitions and link-stuffing. It reads like a PR job making a vague attempt to connect two mostly unrelated topics.
