The Niskanen Center is one of the hot new things in libertarian think tank world [DISCLOSURE: I made its Wikipedia page, and have corresponded with and interacted on Facebook with Matthew Ernest La Corte and David Bier, the two key people working on immigration at Niskanen. Most of the interactions are prior to them respectively joining Niskanen].

<h4>The Niskanen libertarian position</h4>

I want to begin by talking a bit about the Niskanen Center's niche carved within libertarianism, and its appeal to a lot of people. Though it doesn't define itself as "bleeding-heart libertarian", the Niskanen Center's rhetoric and positions seem to have attracted many of the BHL (and the old "liberaltarian" disposition). Most notably, there is explicit recognition of social justice as a legitimate goal, inequality as a <em>prima facie</em> legitimate concern, and some type of welfare state as a legitimate option on the table in political discourse. 

In addition to standing in roughly this place philosophically, the NC also prioritizes political pragmatism. As far as its public disclosure goes, however, this moderate libertarianism is not merely a pragamtic stance but something many of NC's core folk really believe. But given their open embrace of pragmatism and message crafting, can't rule out that not everybody at NC believes in the BHL messaging.

My own personal views are more "hardore" extremist libertarian. My non-opposition to the welfare state in public writing is more a reflection of the fact that I see it as a low priority and also something that should ideally be tackled secondarily to direct and violent restrictions on personal and economic freedom. But contra some of NC's messaging, I don't see a welfare state as an ideal to strive for. 

On this broad issue, I think the NC is wrong, but no more so than mainstream political views. I don't think their impurity makes them heretics, or anything. I am in particular not interested in using this post for an object-level discussion of the value of a means-tested welfare state or a universal basic income. If you are more of a welfare statist you may see the NC's approach as having more truth to it.


