Response to inquiry about doing bootcamps based on VWP-eligibility (based on ESTA authorization).

 Quick summary of US government agencies/terminology:

Agencies:

- U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) (website: cbp.gov) is
  responsible for controlling entry and exit at ports of entry
  (airports and sea ports). The officer who stamps your passport is
  from CBP. They are also responsible for border security/enforcement
  at land and sea borders but that doesn't concern you.

- The U.S. Department of State (website: state.gov) is responsible for
  the issuance of visas. All consulates and embassies are under this
  department, and visas are issued by consular officers.

- U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) (website:
  uscis.gov) handles work authorizations necessary in order to be able
  to apply for work visas. It also handles permanent residency,
  citizenship and change or extension of nonimmigrant status in the
  United States. You probably won't have to deal with USCIS.

- U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) (website: dhs.gov) is the
  parent agency under which USCIS, CBP, and U.S. Immigrations and
  Customs Enforcement (ICE) operate. DHS is separate from Department
  of State, but they coordinate with each other for various purposes.

Documents:

- Visa: This is a document (put on a page of your passport) issued by
  a consular officer (under the U.S. Department of State) that gives
  you permission to seek admission to the United States. The visa
  specifies the type of visa (a letter, usually followed by a number),
  the start date, the expiration date, and whether the visa is
  single-entry or multiple-entry. It can be used to seek admission to
  the United States.

- B-1 visa: Visa for business (including attending workshops and
  conferences; does not allow work or "study")

- B-2 visa: Visa for tourism/pleasure visits

- B-1/B-2 visa: Visa that allows both B-1 and B-2 activities

- Form I-94: This is a document issued to you by CBP upon landing and
  being admitted to the United States. This specifies the maximum
  duration of your stay and the status in which you are admitted. As
  long as you stay within that status (satisfying all its
  requirements) and depart before the end date, you are good. Note
  that whereas the visa expiration date governs until when you can
  enter, the Form I-94 expiration date covers until when you can
  stay. Also, whereas a single visa can be used for multiple entries,
  Form I-94 is reissued every time you re-enter, and only after you
  are successfully admitted.

- Visa Waiver Program: A program whereby people from a few countries
  who have not previously had a visa denied to him can travel to the
  US for brief periods of time. Activities permitted are a weaker
  subset of those allowed under the B visa. Those entering on VWP do
  NOT get Form I-94; they previously got Form I-94W but this has been
  discontinued.

- Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA): An electronic
  system you need to go through in order to engage in VWP travel. Note
  that even with ESTA, you can no longer use VWP for travel if you
  have ever been denied a visa to the US.

- Form I-539: Used to extend a status within the US if you are staying
  beyond the duration specified on the I-94. Can be used for B visa.

References worth reading for your situation:

https://www.avvo.com/legal-answers/how-can-i-attend-a-coding-bootcamp-in-the-us--as-a-2199529.html discusses somebody who actually asked CBP this question; some brief advice from immigration lawyers

https://www.quora.com/Did-anybody-as-a-foreigner-to-the-U-S-ever-have-trouble-entering-the-country-to-attend-a-coding-boot-camp-using-the-Visa-Waiver-Program (references the Avvo discussion and has some extra detail; see also the Quora related questions


What visa to use to enter (relevant US government agency: US consulate
or embassy in your country, that is under the U.S. Department of
State):

* You are not legally allowed to attend a bootcamp if you entered
  using the VWP.

* If the bootcamp is at a SEVP-certified institution and it is willing
  to sponsor your M-1 (i.e., issue you an I-20) you can enter on a M-1
  visa.

* Otherwise, the best option is to obtain a B-1 visa. When obtaining
  the B-1 visa, you will need to address the following:

- The duration of the bootcamp (the B-1 may be granted only for that duration)
- Proof that you got in, and that the bootcamp is legit
- Proof of strong home ties
- MOST IMPORTANT: Evidence that you will not seek employment in the
  United States. In particular, I think you might need to demonstrate
  something along the lines that the skills the bootcamp is training
  for can be used for jobs in your home country, and that you are
  interested in those jobs. (NOTE: It may be the case that you later
  apply for a job to the US. The point is just that seeking employment
  in the US is not one of your intentions for this current trip). But
  don't start talking about this of your own accord; just be ready to
  answer questions on these lines if they come up.

* Instead of a B-1 visa, you may be issued a dual B-1/B-2
  visa. However, make sure that you do NOT get a pure B-2 visa. B-1 is
  for business travel, B-2 is for pleasure and does not allow you to
  attend bootcamps.

* If your B-1 visa application is rejected, then you will never be
  able to enter on a VWP. However, you should (with relative ease) be
  able to get another B visa, as long as you did not commit any fraud
  or misrepresentation in your application. The typical B visa is
  valid for multiple entry for about 10 years (maximum validity period
  varies based on the country's reciprocity agreement with the US).

* Make sure that the B-1 visa you get is a multiple-entry visa, so
  that you can enter twice using the same visa.

Entry (relevant US government agency: US Customs and Border
Protection, Office of Field Operations)

* Make sure to enter your relevant information correctly 72 hours
  prior to departure with the airline.

* At the time of entry, make sure you are admitted using the B visa,
  and NOT via ESTA.

* Don't carry any materials in your luggage that make you look like
  you are coming as a job-seeker (like, don't carry books on how to
  crack the coding interview, or how to find a job, etc.)

* The CBP officers may have similar concerns as the consular
  officer. Answer honestly and don't use trigger words (like don't say
  you are enrolling in "school" or you are trying to find
  "work"). Stick to the standard language for B-1 visa (purpose of
  trip: business. Your B-1 entry should fall under "Participating in
  scientific educational, professional, or business conventions,
  conferences, or seminars" as far as I can make out).

* You should be able to present to the CBP officer all the evidence
  that you presented when getting the visa, so keep all your documents
  in hand baggage. Most likely you won't need it.

* Keep the phone numbers of some US contacts available so that you can
  get in touch with them if you get in extended interrogation.

For re-entry:

* Same points as above. You should probably get another letter from
  the bootcamp saying that you are continuing to attend it, etc.

Later job search:

* In extreme cases it is possible to change status from B-1 to a work
  status while in the US but the extreme cases probably don't apply to
  you. Therefore the most likely way you'll get a job in the US is if
  you get a job offer to start on H-1B in a future year. What that
  would entail is that you return to your home country and next year,
  your employer applies for a H-1B on your behalf. Obviously, this
  isn't an outcome you should rely on, and should not be the purpose
  of your trip.

* If you're trying to do anything trickier you'll need to consult an
  immigration lawyer.

